# 列表渲染
在列表渲染的过程中我们常使用map与filter方法，需要注意的是：
Arrow functions implicitly return the expression right after `=>`, so you didn’t need a `return` statement:
```
const listItems = chemists.map(person =>  <li>...</li> // Implicit return!);
```

However, **you must write `return` explicitly if your `=>` is followed by a `{` curly brace!**
```
const listItems = chemists.map(person => { // Curly brace  return <li>...</li>;});
```

Arrow functions containing `=> {` are said to have a [“block body”.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions/Arrow_functions#function_body) They let you write more than a single line of code, but you _have to_ write a `return` statement yourself. If you forget it, nothing gets returned!
### key
You need to give each array item a `key` — a string or a number that uniquely identifies it among other items in that array:
```jsx
<li key={person.id}>...</li>
```

Keys tell React which array item each component corresponds to, so that it can match them up later. This becomes important if your array items can move (e.g. due to sorting), get inserted, or get deleted. A well-chosen `key` helps React infer what exactly has happened, and make the correct updates to the DOM tree.

The short [`<>...</>` Fragment](https://react.dev/reference/react/Fragment) syntax won’t let you pass a key, so you need to either group them into a single `<div>`, or use the slightly longer and [more explicit `<Fragment>` syntax:](https://react.dev/reference/react/Fragment#rendering-a-list-of-fragments)
```jsx
import { Fragment } from 'react';
// ...
const listItems = people.map(person =>  
	<Fragment key={person.id}>    
		<h1>{person.name}</h1>    
		<p>{person.bio}</p>  
	</Fragment>
);
```

You might be tempted to use an item’s index in the array as its key. In fact, that’s what React will use if you don’t specify a `key` at all. But the order in which you render items will change over time if an item is inserted, deleted, or if the array gets reordered. Index as a key often leads to subtle and confusing bugs.

Similarly, do not generate keys on the fly, e.g. with `key={Math.random()}`. This will cause keys to never match up between renders, leading to all your components and DOM being recreated every time. Not only is this slow, but it will also lose any user input inside the list items. Instead, use a stable ID based on the data.

Note that your components won’t receive `key` as a prop. It’s only used as a hint by React itself. If your component needs an ID, you have to pass it as a separate prop: `<Profile key={id} userId={id} />`.