# 纯函数
In computer science (and especially the world of functional programming), [a pure function](https://wikipedia.org/wiki/Pure_function) is a function with the following characteristics:
- **It minds its own business.** It does not change any objects or variables that existed before it was called.
- **Same inputs, same output.** Given the same inputs, a pure function should always return the same result.

React is designed around this concept. **React assumes that every component you write is a pure function.** This means that React components you write must always return the same JSX given the same inputs
### 纯函数的必要性
写纯函数需要一定的习惯和纪律。但它也开启了许多绝佳的机会：
- Your components could run in a different environment—for example, on the server! Since they return the same result for the same inputs, one component can serve many user requests.
- You can improve performance by [skipping rendering](https://react.dev/reference/react/memo) components whose inputs have not changed. This is safe because pure functions always return the same results, so they are safe to cache.
- If some data changes in the middle of rendering a deep component tree, React can restart rendering without wasting time to finish the outdated render. Purity makes it safe to stop calculating at any time.
### 严格模式
Although you might not have used them all yet, in React there are three kinds of inputs that you can read while rendering: [props](https://react.dev/learn/passing-props-to-a-component), [state](https://react.dev/learn/state-a-components-memory), and [context.](https://react.dev/learn/passing-data-deeply-with-context) You should always treat these inputs as read-only.

When you want to _change_ something in response to user input, you should [set state](https://react.dev/learn/state-a-components-memory) instead of writing to a variable. You should never change preexisting variables or objects while your component is rendering.

React offers a “Strict Mode” in which it calls each component’s function twice during development. **By calling the component functions twice, Strict Mode helps find components that break these rules.**

Notice how the original example displayed “Guest #2”, “Guest #4”, and “Guest #6” instead of “Guest #1”, “Guest #2”, and “Guest #3”. The original function was impure, so calling it twice broke it. But the fixed pure version works even if the function is called twice every time. **Pure functions only calculate, so calling them twice won’t change anything**—just like calling `double(2)` twice doesn’t change what’s returned, and solving y = 2x twice doesn’t change what y is. Same inputs, same outputs. Always.

Strict Mode has no effect in production, so it won’t slow down the app for your users. To opt into Strict Mode, you can wrap your root component into `<React.StrictMode>`. Some frameworks do this by default.
### 本地突变
In the above example, the problem was that the component changed a _preexisting_ variable while rendering. This is often called a **“mutation”** to make it sound a bit scarier. Pure functions don’t mutate variables outside of the function’s scope or objects that were created before the call—that makes them impure!

However, **it’s completely fine to change variables and objects that you’ve _just_ created while rendering.** In this example, you create an array, assign it to a variable, and then a dozen cups into it:`[]``cups``push`
```jsx
function Cup({ guest }) {
  return <h2>Tea cup for guest #{guest}</h2>;
}

export default function TeaGathering() {
  const cups = [];
  for (let i = 1; i <= 12; i++) {
    cups.push(<Cup key={i} guest={i} />);
  }
  return cups;
}
```

If the `cups` variable or the `[]` array were created outside the `TeaGathering` function, this would be a huge problem! You would be changing a _preexisting_ object by pushing items into that array.

However, it’s fine because you’ve created them _during the same render_, inside `TeaGathering`. No code outside of `TeaGathering` will ever know that this happened. This is called **“local mutation”**—it’s like your component’s little secret.
### 副作用
These changes—updating the screen, starting an animation, changing the data—are called **side effects.** They’re things that happen _“on the side”_, not during rendering.

In React, **side effects usually belong inside [event handlers.](https://react.dev/learn/responding-to-events)** Event handlers are functions that React runs when you perform some action—for example, when you click a button. Even though event handlers are defined _inside_ your component, they don’t run _during_ rendering! **So event handlers don’t need to be pure.**

If you’ve exhausted all other options and can’t find the right event handler for your side effect, you can still attach it to your returned JSX with a [`useEffect`](https://react.dev/reference/react/useEffect) call in your component. This tells React to execute it later, after rendering, when side effects are allowed. **However, this approach should be your last resort.**

### 练习题
The CEO of your company is asking you to add “stories” to your online clock app, and you can’t say no. You’ve written a `StoryTray` component that accepts a list of `stories`, followed by a “Create Story” placeholder.

You implemented the “Create Story” placeholder by pushing one more fake story at the end of the `stories` array that you receive as a prop. But for some reason, “Create Story” appears more than once. Fix the issue.

```jsx
export default function StoryTray({ stories }) {
  stories.push({
    id: 'create',
    label: 'Create Story'
  });

  return (
    <ul>
      {stories.map(story => (
        <li key={story.id}>
          {story.label}
        </li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  );
}
```

但是这是不对的，你在组件的内部尝试着去修改props，这会导致函数不纯净，会产生意外的副作用，常见的解决办法是：
```js
export default function StoryTray({ stories }) {
  // Copy the array!
  const storiesToDisplay = stories.slice();

  // Does not affect the original array:
  storiesToDisplay.push({
    id: 'create',
    label: 'Create Story'
  });

  return (
    <ul>
      {storiesToDisplay.map(story => (
        <li key={story.id}>
          {story.label}
        </li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  );
}
```

这样在组件的内部修改的只是props的副本，并没有影响到props本身（slice用于浅拷贝），这样就保持了函数的纯净，这难道是Local Mutation吗，我不太确定。